imagine being able to enjoy your music
precisely the way it was first recorded
imagine the ultimate studio experience
but in your home that aspiration is now
a reality keffe LS 50 anniversary model
a legend reborn in the ultimate mini
monitor continuing a 50-year legacy of
innovation celebrating Kev's original
collaboration with the BBC using blade
technologies and beyond the LS 50 packs
a colossal soundstage into our most
compact design bringing out detail and
richness you never thought possible
keffe LS 50 professional sound for the
home
four decades ago the BBC worked with keV
on the legendary ls3 five a studio
speaker because calf was a pioneer in
new technology in the same spirit the LS
50 pushes the boundaries of innovation
using pioneering technologies from blade
and more still an engineer's loudspeaker
the LS 50 brings the recording studio
into the home with an unparalleled
richness of sound
the main challenge of developing the LS
50 as the ultimate mini monitor was to
take such a compact package and to get
an accurate spacious sound with all the
excitement of the original performance
the three key technological
breakthroughs in the LS 50 are the
constrained layer damping the curved
baffle and the flexible elliptical
reflex port these combined together to
give a clear and spacious sound the
curved baffle is shaped so that the
sound waves spread from the drive unit
with minimum reflection from the edges
and that gives a very nice spacious
sound the curvature also improves the
rigidity of the baffle which reduces the
vibration the constrained layer damping
which is between the brace and the
enclosure walls and also the front
baffle prevents the cabinet vibrating
and radiating sound this can otherwise
cause coloration in the mid-range the
port tube has a flexible wall this is to
allow mid-range sound that is traveling
down the port tube to escape back into
the cabinet and prevents longitudinal
resonances these can otherwise radiate
and cause mid-range coloration the port
G also has very carefully flared walls
to avoid the chuffing noises that you
can get when you get air turbulence in
the port tube
to the ls 50 project we were very
fortunate to be able to draw on the
driver technology from the blade to
develop a really special unique you for
the LS 50 the LS 50 high frequency unit
has got a tendering waveguide and
optimum dome shape to reduce a spherical
wavefront this together with the Z flex
surround gives very wide dispersion
allowing a very spacious sound to be
produced with a wide sweet spot the
stiffened dome of the high frequency
unit is centrally positioned in a
magnesium aluminium alloy mid range comb
these diaphragms both move as rigid
pistons and the breakup control of the
mid-range unit allows an exceptionally
accurate and clean sound in this project
the access we had to the very latest
computing techniques allowed us to spend
a considerable amount of time at the
beginning of the project just exploring
what happens inside the loudspeaker
enclosure and the different geometries
and materials we could use to make it
perform better
we had a finite element method for
modeling the vibration and the air
inside the box the boundary element
method for modeling the radiation into
infinite space and computational fluid
dynamics to look at the airflow inside
the reflex port the main benefit of this
technology was that it allowed us to
evaluate how much coloration was
radiated from the port and the cabinet
walls we could also see exactly how the
cabinet walls vibrated and the sound
pressure varied inside the enclosure
what we're doing now is completely in
the spirit of keV bringing recordings to
life using the latest technology
an unrivaled legacy of half a century's
innovation means that CAF name is
synonymous with acoustic excellence and
the quest continues with keV leading the
way